Of course, we've had relationships with
thousands and thousands of people. And
we've been many thousands of people.
We've been everything in history. And
when the soul awakens in us, it opens up
this breath of compassion and a breath
of understanding. It is truly the birth
of oneness within the human species. The
future human is not a sci-fi
imagination. We just have to look at our
history with understanding. We've been
building this organism and there is a
summation point coming in order to
survive our creative potential which is
emerging at this time in history. We
need to grow up and to grow up it means
sort of claiming our entire being. And
we can see signs of the soul beginning
to emerge all over the place once you
know what you're looking for. Once
you're looking to see it.
Well, welcome back everybody to the Love
Conquers Fear podcast. Um, I want to
tell you about an experience I just had
for the first time in my life. I'm
always trying to, you know, push myself
and do new things. And um, I met a woman
last year that uh that I knew from the
TED conference. Um, she actually had
attended one of the dinners that I
hosted there. host an annual dinner
there and her name is Alisa Cohen and we
were at uh the Renaissance weekend uh
for the first time in my life. It's uh
it was in Santa Barbara but they do
these all over the US. If you ever get
an invitation to Renaissance weekend, I
highly recommend it. Um it's kind of
like an unconference. There's so many
amazing people that attend and I learned
so much about space and you know
leadership and so many other great
topics and and just so many experts
there and that's where I met Sachin Raja
who you all know was on the podcast and
real spiritual leader a real real shaman
in many ways and that was such a great
episode. Anyways, Alisa and I um
reconnected there and she said, "You
know, I really think you would like this
meditation retreat that I go to at the
beginning of every year." And you know,
I felt my energy like immediately light
up. Like I knew it was a yes. Um with
with very little detail. She told me a
little bit about it. Um and I just got
back from attending that and it was held
at 1440 Multiversity um which is in
Scots Valley, California about 45
minutes from San Jose and it's led by
John and Will um Katzen.
And John is in his 80s now. It's just
full of life though you would you'd
never know his age. She actually agreed
at the uh at the meditation retreat to
be on Love Conquers Fear. So, I'm really
going to enjoy recording that with him
in the future. And you know, I I I I
walked in and I saw Joe Greenstein and
it was just a beautiful synchronicity
because Joe and I went to Warden
together. He actually helped me get some
of my initial businesses off the ground.
And then he went on to be a great
entrepreneur and um ultimately started a
company called Flickster which acquired
Rotten Tomatoes and really became known
mostly for Rotten Tomatoes which really
is my go-to for movie reviews at this
point. I always compare both the critic
and the audience reviews and see see how
those sync really read the details. And
of course, I care a lot about reviews
given my background at uh at Bizaarre
Boys, you know, as an entrepreneur
myself. Um, and Joe and I hadn't seen
each other for so long and, you know,
gave each other big hugs and it was just
so great to reconnect with him. And this
is this is a retreat that he goes to
annually. And he said, you know, it's
going to be really weird now that we're
here because this is mostly silent.
And in prior years, what I found out is
that it it had been mostly silent, but
this year what John and his son Will
decided to do is make it all silent. And
so it was around uh four days and it was
a completely silent retreat including
you know when you're going to dinner
with uh people you're sitting in silence
and it sounds you know blissful to to
you listening to this and I I can
understand that and but I I'll tell you
it's actually really challenging and you
know John at the end of it as we were
checking out he's like you know you're
going to tell people about this he was
talking addressing us all. There were
about 75 people there. And you're going
to say, you know, we meditated, you
know, sitting, then we meditated
walking, then we had, you know, a meal,
and then we meditated some more. And
people are just going to think that
sounds that sounds absolutely amazing.
But the reality is that's actually
really challenging. It's really
challenging to both be in silence, quiet
the mind, um allow, you know,
consciousness to stream through, not be
captured and trapped in your mind by by
thoughts that you just you just go on
auto repeat. And um I found it very
challenging but also at the same time
very liberating because one of the
things that it does if you ever want to
try this and I've you know already
talked with many friends who are like oh
my gosh I would love to do a silent
meditation retreat is that it really
tunes you into the essence of
consciousness and the essence of your
senses like your your hearing goes way
up. Your your your sight goes way up,
you know, just just your ability to feel
and and witness the beauty and the love
that surrounds us all the time. And it's
always available to us. And you know,
there are several quips that John uses
which I want to repeat here. He calls
this a radical act of sanity
to take your seat and go into this state
to really quiet the mind. Um he also
calls it your response ability.
Um and there the there there was there
was one piece which I'm thinking about
writing about where he he was saying
sometimes during the meditation you know
it's just this this eternal moment and
it's just us and in my mind I went to
justice and the reason I went to justice
is that you know we're always in this
constant programmatic
um situation in the world of form you
know The media wants us to think a
certain way and keep us locked in that
state of fear. Social media is pushing,
you know, to to our basis fears to try
to just keep us clicking like mice in a
maze looking for the cheese. And at any
point in time, we can take our seat. So,
what did I take away from from this
experience?
when my mind is um in a noisy place, I
can always act with response ability and
I can always have that radical act of
sanity and take my seat. And I've been
meditating um since on a regular basis
and it it's really amazing. Um so I
would encourage you to take up a
practice like that. You know, my 2026
theme is all about embodiment. My 2025
theme for the new year was all about the
inner journey. And so this is a this is
a example of me living that. And I've
got a a two-week meditation retreat
coming up in Bali at the end of uh April
and beginning of May that I'm really
excited about later this year um with
Narage Meta, Jack Heric, and a number of
others that have really encouraged me.
And you'll see eventually um I think
we're recording in a month or so um
Narage Meta on the podcast. And it's a
form of meditation called Sidha Maha um
which I attended
virtually at the end of last year um to
basically
I was invited to it and I thought gosh
I've got so many excuses not to do this
online. Um I'm in the final deadline for
my book Love Conquers Fear Humanity AI
and the Age of Abundance for All. And I
just thought, you know, I'm gonna do it.
It's again, my energy lit up and it
actually made writing the end of the
book, um, which I wrote the introduction
and chapter 13 that week. Um, chapter 13
is all about how to transform and how
humanity will transform as we enter the
age of abundance for all. And I I I'll
tell you that you know practicing
meditation, practicing Sidha Maha uh
meditation that week really helped me a
lot in closing it out. So um so anyways
encouragement on that front. Um I am
really really honored today um to have a
guest on that this was a this was a
dream for me, a real stretch frankly.
Um, I had no idea how he would respond,
but you know, as synchronicities go, and
you all know that I'm a big fan of the
book, The Celestine Prophecy, I've been
involved with this group that this guy
Tom Morgan leads, who will soon be over
at our house tonight for dinner. And
it's a group called The Leading Edge,
and it's about 150 members, really
amazing people. Um, I've gotten a lot of
value out of the group. Um, but it was
the group that actually brought my guest
um to the forefront and they did, you
know, Q&A and interview with him and and
I used that as an opportunity to reach
out and see if he'd like to be on Love
Conquers Fear and he said yes and it is
just a huge honor and we we've been
having a lot of fun over the uh the last
two days. I welcome uh Chris Bash.
>> Yeah, Chris. Yeah,
>> thank you very much.
>> What an honor. What an honor. Well, real
pleasure. Real pleasure to be here with
you.
>> Well, it's it's really just a huge honor
and and this um this feels like it was
destined to happen when I when I started
Love Cockers Fear. Your book um LSD in
the mind of the universe, Diamonds from
Heaven. That book I've read twice now
and for me it is the most cosmic book
about how to decode the reality that
we're in that that I've ever read out of
55 books that I read last year. And um
it's it's just a must-read for people
and you know people that that are not
into psychedelics. I would understand
that maybe that would be a turnoff for
them and hearing the title.
>> Sure. But um you know I know from
psychedelics in in my own experience
that that really is a connection with
the divine
>> and that it really has helped me figure
out what our actual reality is and the
fact that we we come from a place of
light and love.
>> Um and so the way you decode that in the
book is just just amazing. But maybe we
can go back to the beginning on
what you know what were the journeys
that motivated you eventually to write
the book 40 years after your first uh
your first journey. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I'm not a psychologist and I'm
certainly not a business person or an
entrepreneur. I've been a a professor of
religious studies at a small uh
university in northeast Ohio.
And uh I finished graduate school as a
pretty deeply convinced agnostic,
atheisticallyincclined agnostic.
And I met the work of u Ian Stevenson
when I first started my career and this
was back in 78
>> and the you know the the master of
introducing empirical evidence for
reincarnation who turned my thinking
upside down. Then more importantly, I
met Stannislov Grath's work
>> and uh he had just published realms of
the human unconscious and I took that in
and I immediately felt a calling.
>> Yeah.
>> To to do this work and uh
>> and he's he's a real pioneer in in LSD
research.
>> Yeah. He's the one of the world's
foremost authorities on integrating
psychedelics into therapeut in
therapeutic work. Yeah.
>> And uh so in 1979 I started uh working
on a self-experiment
uh privately uh underground because it
was illegal by that time.
>> Mh. uh and after three medium dose
sessions and these are highly structured
therapeutic sessions using Stan G's
paradigm uh his protocol uh total
isolation eye shades lying down
headphones music carefully calibrated
sitter
>> uh that um I did uh 73 highdose LSD
sessions
>> this a protocol I don't recommend
>> u but I had a passion to want to
understand
uh as deeply as I could the fundamental
structure of reality of spiritual
reality.
>> And I started in the beginning like many
people, many of us got involved in
psychedelics back then to sort of
accelerate my spiritual evolution to
sort of burn up my karma, chew through
my karma faster and um
uh awakened sooner. Mhm.
>> Uh but the method I used was so powerful
it took me beyond the parameters of
spiritual awakening into what I came to
recognize as cosmological exploration.
So I did this work. I did 73 sessions
over 20 years. I did four years of work.
I stopped for six years. Then I did 10
years of work. On average for the years
I was working I was doing five sessions
a year.
>> So that's some people would think that's
a lot. Some people would think that's
not a lot. Um, and then I stopped in 79
and 99. So I I worked between when I was
30 to 50 years old while I was doing my
work at the university. So I had a kind
of a a dual life. Mhm.
>> I was an academic in the department
doing the things academics do and
publishing and doing committees and
teaching and uh and in my private life I
was doing this very intense
psychotherrapeutic uh exploration using
uh LSD.
And then after I finished uh I had was
writing several books along the way but
the one that you mentioned LSD and the
mind of the universe I published 20
years after I stopped the sessions
because it it takes a long time to
assimilate and to absorb and understand
and what was going on in these very deep
excursions into the universe. and then
um published LSD in the mind of the
universe which just basically just
telling a straightforward story as
clearly as I can as precisely as I can
what happened on this journey where it
went
>> and it went in all sorts of directions
that surprised me I things I didn't
think were possible
>> um
>> so it's basically an account of a
philosopher
uh who has strong kind of existential
questions
um exploring with this new uh psycho
technology and see where it went
>> and and you know just so the the
audience knows um a high dose I think
it's 600 micrograms right
>> yeah I worked 500 to 600 micrograms and
again this is not a protocol that I
would recommend and now that I've been
through it now that I understand much
more than I knew at the beginning uh I
would if I were doing it over again, I
would do it differently. I would balance
high dose with low dose. I would work
with sometimes high doses with maybe
LSD, but I would work with uh psilocybin
or iawasa in an alternating. I'd be much
more nuanced in my approach. But at the
time, this is what I was doing. and and
and you know just just to put that in
context because I've I I'm you know I'm
very pro- psychedelics but I've never
done that dosage of any of any
psychedelic. It's it's a yeah it's a um
>> you know the journeys I've had last
around three and a half to four hours.
Yeah.
>> And
>> um I think 500 to
600 micrograms I think that's around an
8 and 1 half n hour journey right? Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's 5 hours most intense, but
with the tail when they come down about
8 hours,
>> right? Right.
>> Yeah. It's an all day enterprise.
>> Yeah. And and just like anytime people
do psychedelics,
great intentionality,
really good care that you had with uh
with your wife at the time,
>> um
>> had a sitter,
>> right?
>> And she was a clinical psychologist. And
my wife was always a sitter. Once you
move into this work, you recognize that
this is so intense. So, these states are
so intense and they're so demanding on
your body and your emotions and your
consciousness
>> that um you really have to prepare for
it very conscientiously. I mean, you
have to I would do spiritual practices
before the session. I'd do a different
kind of spiritual practice after the
session to support integration. Mhm.
>> the the the cost and the challenge of
entering this deeply into these states
of consciousness requires just a lot of
care and a lot of forethought
>> going into it
>> and uh yeah so a lot of preparation
>> and I really when I'm talking to my
students or whatnot about this uh always
recommending that if you're going to
work in this protocol where you're
entering into temporary states of
immersion so it's a temporary condition
>> different than classical spiritual
practice practice. If you're going to
work in these very short, intense,
temporary states, it's really important
to have a a daily spiritual practice to
anchor you, to help you absorb what
you're letting loose, to give you a
training in discriminating uh awareness
that you can take into these states that
help you stabilize because these are
very convulsive uh kind of uh
existentially convulsive states. And
meditation training is really helpful in
entering those states productively.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's not it's it's not
a uh protocol that um any of the retreat
centers I've been to would would ever
take someone through because they'd
probably end up never coming back,
right? Because it's so it would be so
intense. You know, the the the only the
only person that I personally know that
has ever done something of that
intensity is John Mackey, who you know,
you were you were watching his episode
>> today. It was episode 30.
>> Um, and he he wrote a tell- all memoir
on the journey of Whole Foods with the
whole story.
>> Yeah. And it starts out in chapter one
where he talks about this macro dose of
LSD that
>> he had he faced complete ego death.
>> Yeah. saw the unity of all things, you
know, the dissolution, you know, he
became just part of source.
>> Yeah.
>> And the outcome of that after he dropped
out of UT Austin
was to start Whole Foods.
>> Yeah.
>> It got him over the fear of
>> That's a great session.
>> Basically being an entrepreneur, like a
great session, not just for him, but for
the world. I mean, you know, Whole Foods
has done more to
>> advance um,
>> you know, a very intentional diet, you
know, really taking good care of the
animals. Um,
>> yeah,
>> you know, the the plants that that that
they sell you, everything else. Um, I
mean, it's really changed the world. I I
always tell people as a vegetarian that
Whole Foods has done more to advance the
vegetarian diet probably than any other
company in the entire world.
>> Yeah. Um you know because they gave they
gave so many brands a chance like beyond
meat and you know so so many brands that
that really that was their entry point.
>> Yeah.
>> For the market
>> and that extra boost of awareness that
constant you know I think of
psychedelics and our understanding of
psychedelics is that they are amplifiers
of consciousness. They don't give you a
specific experience. They just amplify
the consciousness that you have. But if
you use that mo this temporary state of
amplified consciousness well,
>> it can lead to all sorts of
breakthroughs and insights and healing
of trauma or just it just opens you up
and you see things and understand things
better and it can give you that like
John that breakthrough to m that
momentum to do something really extreme.
>> Yeah. I mean it's definitely been
transformational
>> for for my life. I've always felt like
I've understood my meaning and I've had,
you know, experiences with um I'm I'm
going to use the word God because that's
what I call it. But but um you know, for
people listening this, they could think
of that as consciousness or the universe
or
>> you know, the the astral plane, however
they want to, you know, heaven, however
they want to refer to that. Um
so I you know I felt I I I remember the
moments in my life where I had that
really deep experience you know pre-
evertaking psychedelics with u you know
exactly where I was at the the the
spiritual awakening the feeling in my
body just this
>> beautiful knowing of that we're
surrounded by by so much love that
that's where we come from.
>> Yeah. Um but but actually experiencing
that in
my journeys and seeing that you know my
meaning
has been to really help humanity through
technology
>> create a better world.
>> Yeah.
>> You know being Jewish that's called
tunam.
>> Yeah.
>> You know here we are
>> um at the ultimate manifestation of
that. And you know, it was love conquers
fear, a journey that uh really led to
what I'm doing right now.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and led to the book that that I just
concluded writing, which now I'm in the
tedious editing process. I'm sure you
know how how that goes. That's like
>> um but you know I do want I do want to
you know and I've said this multiple
times on the podcast with lots of guests
who have have have given this advice
like you know real care set and setting
really matters like really understanding
like where you're at um whether or not
it's the right place for you. you really
check the references on wherever you're
going and yeah,
>> you know, all of that stuff matters a
lot because you're you're you're um
using very very powerful spiritual
tools. Um and
>> and I I I personally, you know, I'm not
I'm not saying I I I I look down on
people that do this, but because because
I I don't like there everybody makes
their own choice, but but um but I don't
use them at all in party type settings.
>> Yeah, I have never tripped. I don't trip
and I don't you know and I always
specify these are sessions these are and
it it really draws from the Japanese
term of sasheen which is a period of
intense spiritual practice meditation
practice. So for me a day spent in the
psychedelic state is a sasheen. It's a
very intense time of spiritual practice.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh or philosophical inquiry. Uh and
yeah, it's it's one of the things that I
think
I've learned only as I've been sharing
my experiences with people. Mhm.
>> Uh I've come to appreciate that one of
the things that seemed to have impact
the trajectory of my work
>> was the standardization of set and
setting in that I was using the same
substance the same dose the same set and
setting uh same protocol same sitter
even the same uh area of the country
because if you change any of those you
change some of the context right and it
changes the meeting point between you
and infinite consciousness.
>> So, it's like if we if we want to study
the stars,
>> first we go we find a mountain way
outside of town where there's very few
lights and we get up on the mountain and
we create this great big ears of an
antenna and we put it up in the sky and
we hold it there for a long period of
time and don't move it so that the
subtle signals begin to register. And I
think it's like that with psychedelics.
If you you if you want to hold it there
for a long period of time uh and if you
do that and you register and absorb what
comes in and you digest it thoroughly
then when you go back the next time and
the next time uh the conversation or the
communion deepens. You're not simply
going back to the same state. Something
is set in motion in in terms of your
transformation inside as you absorb the
teachings and try to take them in
>> that it changes you. And so the changed
you enters into a different kind of
communion, a deeper state of communion
>> uh in subsequent sessions. At least
that's been my experience. Well, one of
I mean there there's so many things that
were just incredibly uh um mind-blowing
for me. I don't know any other word to
to use for it in your book. And and and
beautiful and and and one of them is,
you know, by by the end of your sessions
as they're kind of wrapping up,
you know, your your word for for God in
the book is my beloved.
>> Although sometimes you use the word God,
too. Mh.
>> God was basically you you found at the
end was taking you through in these 73
sessions
>> in a logical se sequence
>> to decode our reality and frankly to
clear some of the collective wounds in
the human psyche um that we had
accumulated over over our evolution
here.
>> Yeah.
>> Um on earth and
>> and that was a surprise to me. I wasn't
expecting that
>> cuz when I started I thought it I had
adopted a personal model of
transformation.
>> So I thought it was about personal
karma, personal you know issues
>> and I was expecting to sort of work on
my personal issues or former life issues
and clear it up and awaken faster. Mhm.
>> And what I found is that after 2 years
when I had gone through some pretty deep
death and rebirth experiences, the
landscape opened.
>> Mhm.
>> And I was drawn into vast landscapes of
collective suffering and collective
trauma.
>> Yeah.
>> Covering hundreds of thousands of
persons and thousands of years. And I
just didn't have a frame of reference
for understanding what was happening.
And that eventually I came to understand
that somehow uh something was using my
sessions to facilitate a um a
transformation, a healing, a
purification of collective trauma that's
stored in the collective psyche. And so
that somehow this indiv what was started
by an individual became kind of like a
funnel draining these poisons out of the
collective psyche in order to make the
the the
mind of the species the the species mind
u clearer
less traumatized and more open to the
positive energies that are I think
coming into us very powerfully at this
time in history. Mhm. Yeah.
Yeah. Totally agree. I mean, I think I
think this is the most fateful time for
humanity, the time that we're in right
now. That's why that's why I'm doing
what I'm doing. One one of them that uh
there were so many parts of the book
that that moved me a lot. And you know,
last night you and I were uh at dinner
with um with my niece Chantel and my
sister Brandy, which was really really
fun.
>> It was
>> um we went to the well, which is great
place in Austin. Highly highly
recommend. I don't have any ads on the
podcast, but but I do talk about the
things I love. Um, nobody pays me to do
any of that. I'm self-unding all this.
You know, one one that moved me a lot
and has a synchronicity with with with
with my book with love conquers fear is
um I have a chapter on the
objectification of women and how there's
been millennia of suffering and that's a
poisonous kind of toxin.
>> Yeah.
>> That humanity needs to transcend. Yeah.
>> And you experienced in your journeys
actually becoming a woman and seeing and
experiencing and helping clear the
trauma and that that was extremely
extremely moving. Maybe you can just
talk about that a bit. I was going
through what Stan called the perinatal
level of consciousness. this very
existential, very intense period between
personal consciousness and transpersonal
consciousness and going through the
typical kind of um intense purification
processes which culminated in ego death.
But the form that ego death took for me
is that it took my existence. I'm a
white male philosopher concerned with
the meaning of life. It took that and it
completely turned me into the opposite.
It turned me into a female, many
females, um, people of color, women of
color, women who were not interested in
philosophy or the meaning of life at
all. It just turned me into the opposite
and gave me no other outlet. It It just
forced me to experience life from that
perspective, which was terrifying. It
was like the perfect hell for a
philosopher, a male philosopher. And I
fought it. And then eventually I stopped
fighting it and I gave into it. And I
went through this death uh and then a
rebirth. And then I was taken into the
world of women under the arm of the
great mother, I say, and was taken into
hundreds and hundreds of lives of women
in all sorts of different aspects of
life. I mean I experienced being
pregnant and uh laughing at our husbands
and with my sisters and it was just it
was a tremendous inversion. It showed me
it many things about how narrowly I had
experienced life from the perspective of
a male ego and it opened me to the
tremendous diversity.
>> Yeah. And uh and that was my sort of
letting go of my identity
as who I had been up to that point in
time. Because when you move into these
very deep states of consciousness that
are large and huge and expansive in time
and expansive in uh in other ways,
your identity keeps you small. It keeps
you constricted. And you have to let go
of that identity if you're going to have
experiences that go beyond that
identity. So that just was happened to
how the universe just took me and
snapped me like a twig.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh then sent me on and there were
other deaths later. Yeah.
>> But that was the first one that really
snapped my ego.
>> Why do you think that happened? like you
know it looking back you know through
all the journeys like like cuz it's so I
mean people listening to this you know
>> it's so it's so transcendent like
actually like experiencing completely
what it feels like
>> to be a woman to be the opposite of what
you are and then to experience the yeah
>> collective suffering that women have
actually gone through and and and I mean
you know you're you you've always struck
me as someone who's deeply humble you
can feel your humility as you read your
book. I highly recommend your book on
Audible because I love the fact that you
you read it
>> and and just just the the deep awe and
humility
and um and and you know sometimes I
don't know if you were crying during
some parts of it reading it but it felt
like it you know to me yeah some parts
just I mean some parts made me cry.
Basically my experience has been that um
I always felt
in participating it and with hindsight
there was always an intelligence guiding
my sessions. It was very much like this
class has started again. It picks up
where it stopped. There's always an
intelligence guiding my sessions. The
intelligence never took a particular
form. Never took a a daily form or
spiritual you know form. It was always
invisible, but it was always tangibly
present. And
as I went, it took me into a deeper
level of reality. And the nature of the
consciousness that I experienced of that
reality was different than I had
experienced prior. But then if I as I
continued to work that level of reality,
it would take me into a still deeper
level of reality and in a completely
different universe.
uh and this so it was always
if it had adopted any form that form
would have been tied to a particular
level of reality but by adopting no form
it was always opening me the to the
possibility that there was something
going beyond where this was and it uh so
I just
there's an experience of exquisite
intimacy with it
>> uh and I and I to it took me a a long
time to understand the structure of the
lessons that it was giving me because it
would give me a set of experiences and
then it would take me back through them
multiple times in one session and over
sessions
>> to make sure I understood and until
eventually it was sure that I understood
and then it would take me into something
new. Uh so but but why it was doing it
the way it did it uh that was one of the
challenges in writing the book was was
trying to digest the entire journey and
to try to fathom what were the turning
points what were the stages uh what was
happen how did this compared to what was
going on there and I found that there
was an exquisite texture
>> to the to the lesson to the curriculum
>> but It's not one that's necessarily
immediately obvious. I would go into
things that were completely
inscrutable. I just couldn't comprehend
them. Sometimes the layers of pain would
be incomprehensible or even the layers
of wonder and it takes time to even
understand
>> u what was manifesting in those moments.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and one of one of the things
that's that's uh that's really moving
about the book and and I feel like um
you know I need to say from the bottom
of my heart thank you. you know, I mean,
I know many human beings have have have
thanked you um for being
um
so curious and so driven to understand
our reality um and go through the level
of suffering that you went through in
these sessions to actually get to that
level of helping clear some of the
collective wounds in the human psyche
>> and get the insights
you know that you got you know one of
the things that I talked with you about
after after I picked you up at the
airport is is I said I hope I hope you
know that that you you understand that
meant no harm in this but I've said you
know many times on the podcast I've I'
I've referenced your book a lot
including in the interview with with
John
>> um John and I were on a plane together
going to to Neker Island last year to
meet with Richard Branson and these
amazing conscious Apolis and just had an
amazing time together.
>> And he had picked up your book.
>> Um,
>> and I and and and I said, "What do you
think so far?" And he said, "Well, I'm
I'm trying more and more to get into
it." And I said, "John, I just recommend
you jump to chapter nine. Jump to
chapter nine and then, you know, talk,
you know, go go into the birth of the
future human and what's on the other
side of that, the diamond soul, diamond
vision." We'll get into that
>> in this interview and then work your
way, you know, back, but
>> but um how would you summarize
the I know this is a tall order, but how
would you how would you summarize the
>> collective healing parts of the journey?
You know, the the ego death that you had
to go through to get to the other side.
>> Yeah.
>> To help clear some of humanity's
greatest wounds.
I mean, I know it was unexpected.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and I can't imagine that you would
even, you know, going into this say
like, "Hey, I have a desire to do that."
Now, your soul, I'm sure, did. Yeah.
>> Um cuz I
>> But what I did come to learn later down
the way you did,
>> is that um my soul was incarnated to do
this work.
>> Yes.
>> And the the collective healing was an
aspect of that. Mhm.
>> And I I seem to have been given a
constitution that allowed me to do the
work. It I was built strong for this
type of work. I I can go into uh
expansive states comfortably and I also
congeal comfortably. Um I didn't
understand any of this when it opened
but fortunately it took me into that
ocean, what I call the ocean of
suffering slowly. It took me into it
stage by stage. It intensified
and it was intense because I opened up
into into this work for one year
>> and then I stopped the work and it was
and for six years
>> and then when I started the work again
the ocean of suffering this collective
purification work began exactly where it
had start stopped and continued on.
>> And so let me back up just a bit. In my
experience working with this, there's a
purification phase of the session and
there's an ecstatic phase. So you first
go through the purification, the death
part, and then you go once if you
navigate that well, it reaches a
crescendo. There's an kind of an
ultimate sacrifice made and then uh
you're spun out for the remainder of the
session into uh an ecstatic phase. So
it's not like there's just all suffering
and all suffering. I would never have
been able to endure it. But there is a a
second part of the session. So when I
was going in through the ocean of
suffering in the first part of the hour
of each session, the there was an
ecstatic phase that was following on the
second part and there was a continuity
of development through the ecstatic
phase. So in the first year of the ocean
of suffering I got when I would went
through it I was being taken beyond
linear time into what I came to call
deep time.
>> I began to have these seven sessions
where I experienced my entire life from
beginning to end as simultaneously
present. now.
>> Mhm.
>> I experienced my old age. Now,
>> that that was a dramatic and clarifying
experience because I I began to have an
understanding of what my life was about,
what it served, what I was here for.
>> And then when I stopped for six years,
when I started again, the ocean of
suffering began.
But then I was a whole new chapter
began. What what I called initiation
into the universe. It was like I was
being given a crash course in cosmology
101. I was taken through a series of
experience that began to show me it took
me back to the beginning of creation to
the big bang and be it began to show me
some of the dynamics operating uh in
in the emergence of our of our universe
>> uh which from a philosophical
perspective was tremendously valuable uh
set of insights. So
I just wanted to make sure that the
reader listener understands it wasn't
just all suffering. It was a always it
was a cycle.
>> Yeah.
>> And what you learn is the cycle. You
learn that if you can go into great pain
and great suffering without
understanding why. I didn't understand
why. But if you let it take you wherever
it's going wants to take you and
surrender to it completely, it will take
you through a a vortex and then you will
come into great ecstasy and great
teaching and receive blessings. So what
you internalize is the whole cycle. It
gets bad,
>> okay? And then it gets better.
>> And so it's a rhythmic cycle and that's
what gives you the strength to go back
into the the suffering again. I took two
years to begin the ocean of suffering
and to get through the the ego death
part. And then the ocean of suffering
lasted two years total of active work.
And then there was this u crescendo and
sort of an orgy of of collective anguish
>> and uh and then I was catapulted out
into the next stage of the journey. What
took me into the beginning of archetypal
reality
and the ocean of suffering never
returned.
>> Mhm.
>> Which left me with a puzzle. Why?
Because clearly there's great suffering
remaining in the collective.
>> Yeah. You couldn't have cleared it off.
Yeah.
>> I couldn't have cleared it off. And and
I want to say that um I don't think
there's anything
spiritually special about taking this
work on. To me, it's like this is what
any mother, any father would do if they
had an opportunity. If if they saw a
child suffering, uh we would just simply
step up and try to do what we could do
to stop that suffering. And that's kind
of what it felt like. It felt like just
a normal response to witnessing
suffering in the world. And if you're
given an understanding that you can
change that, right,
>> then you just do it. It's just a natural
instinct.
>> Yeah. Well, when you're the way I would
describe that is when when you're in
your alignment with your soul's mission
in this lifetime,
>> you have an unparalleled
amount of energy and you feel the call
of duty.
>> Yeah.
>> You feel that this is a must do. And
then when that culminated uh I
eventually decid I thought it could be
why it stopped. Mhm.
>> Maybe it was because any one individual
is only allowed to do so much.
>> But I think the larger reason is
you can become useful to the system more
useful by bringing blessings into the
system from above than draining the
poisons out from the bottom.
>> Um I'm not sure whether that's the
ultimate reason for it, but that's what
the best I could come up with. Mhm.
>> Uh because the ocean of suffering
stopped and somehow
the re the energy that was released in
that process, it was as if it's like
being underneath storm clouds and so the
light isn't getting through. And this
work seemed to have cleaned out some of
the clouds and then there was more light
coming in
>> and that more light became the
foundation for everything that followed
next. It just it's a it changed the
operational landscape uh altogether.
>> Yeah.
>> And then I went into the the next series
of of work. The other thing I would
mention is that I think there are many
many people in the world doing this type
of work. Not necessarily with
psychedelics and whatnot, but I think
there are many many u hidden bodhic
sattvas in the world who are working to
u uh lift the suffering not just their
personal suffering or their personal
karmic lineage suffering but really
working to lift the suffering out of the
collective psyche. Uh so I don't think
this is in any way certainly nothing
unique to me and nothing privileged.
This is a a widespread effort now across
the world.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I see that too. I mean I see so
many people putting big orars in the
water to
>> know the stakes, you know, know that
that this is the time
>> where we really got to make sure
humanity makes it. Um I mean that that's
something that that you know I saw very
clearly in a journey. Um you know one of
the things that I I've been blessed with
and we all have our our our gifts is the
ability to see where technology is going
to go.
>> Yeah.
>> And you know growing up as a kid in
Austin
was a very small town when I was born.
It was about the size of Anchorage,
Alaska today. Yeah,
>> it's crazy that now this is the 13th
largest city in the in the US and it's
just booming.
>> Um, but you know, I was picked on a lot
for being different because back then,
you know, I started programming
obsessively at age seven thanks to my
mom and
>> and back then
>> that wasn't normal, you know, and
anytime you do something
>> that's really away from the crowd,
people are worried for you, you know.
It's like that uh that movie The Cruds,
you know, uh this this uh cartoon movie
where, you know, his daughter
>> wants to go outside the cave and like
really go explore and see if she can
meet other, you know, early versions of
Homo sapiens. And he's like, "No, don't
do it. You know, you're going to die.
Something's going to eat you or whatever
else." Yeah.
>> Um and eventually she does it and
humanity advances.
>> Yeah. Um, and so, you know, we're we're
uh we're in a time where where
the opportunity to create abundance for
everyone on the planet, heal the planet,
>> um, heal the animals on the planet,
really alleviate a tremendous amount of
suffering, um,
>> is has never been more
>> present than it is now.
>> Yeah. And I see a lot of people like
putting big orars in the water. I mean
in in in MySpace in tech you know
Mirrama Moratti and you know Reed
Hoffman and um you know Deus Hibis is
doing that and Mustafa Sullyman and you
know these names that that people
listening to this will know that really
are
>> are heading you know some of the most
important AI initiatives and doing it
with great intentionality knowing
>> that um that getting to the other side
of this means the end of disease.
a world of nearly unlimited energy. Um,
>> and you know really the alleviation
of a lot of the division of humanity
which um, you know, that that episode
with John Mackey he he talked about is
you know a root of our suffering and and
the this this dogmatic separation is
just an illusion as it is. but realizing
that we're 99.9%
genetically identical all over the
world.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and that we have this this
opportunity and and I think it's the
next 10 to 15 years that really
determine whether or not we make it. And
technology forces us to make choices.
You know, it it makes other it makes
other means of being obsolete. I'll give
you an example. like we're we're an
investor in a company
um called Upside Foods
>> and it makes meat from the cells of an
animal.
>> It's very Star Trek, you know, kind of
like you remember the Star Trek
replicator.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> and
it's it's it's superior to regular meat.
There's no use of antibiotics. There's
no hormones in it. It's so clean that if
you put it in the refrigerator, it would
last for weeks and weeks
>> because there's no contaminants.
>> Yeah.
>> Um but it's just meat.
>> It's cellularly the exact same thing.
>> Yeah.
>> And the difficult thing about a company
like that is getting to scale.
>> Yeah.
>> And in Texas, it's been outlawed,
unfortunately, my home state.
>> Um it's been outlawed in Florida. Guess
who's doing the outlawing?
>> Yeah. that there it's dominated, you
know, the the Texas House, the Florida
House, like quite a few of them are
cattle ranchers.
>> Yeah.
>> They see this as a threat,
>> but it's inevitable that it's going to
get there because
>> Yeah.
>> because the way capitalism works and
technology works is that eventually
>> you break the the you get on a new
technological curve where the cost and
superiority of the product are
undeniably better.
>> Yeah. Um, and that's what's going to
happen with this because you you're
using almost no land. It uses about a
tenth of the water and a tenth of the
feed cost, but it's it's a live tissue.
>> You could draw parallels with
psychedelics. I mean, they were made
illegal,
>> but they've been proven they're proving
themselves to be so effective in healing
and so effective in deepening our
insights into ourselves and into life
itself
>> that they're being reclaimed. There are
over 300 universities and medical
schools across the world that are
studying uh the therapeutic applications
of psychedelics.
>> So they are coming back. They're just
too valuable. But they were made illegal
because they frightened us. They scared
us. They turned up things we didn't
understand them.
>> Yeah.
>> But the indigenous people have had them
for thousands of years,
>> you know. So now we are we are learning
from our indigenous brothers and sisters
a lot of how to use them, how to use
them wisely because we didn't
necessarily use them very wisely when
they first hit our shores, right? You
know, right now I think we're ready for
a second more grounded uh engagement
with them.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And we even, you know, we even uh
I' I've said multiple times on the
podcast that there there's so much
ancient wisdom for us to learn from.
Yeah. that there was there was actually
a concerted effort to kind of demonize
you know some of those people as like
you know the you know as you say the
indigenous peoples like savages etc etc
yeah
>> and they they knew how to use their
bodies and minds more than most of us
know how to use them today you know
>> and continue that that tradition so
there's so much that we can learn from
each other
>> in the book um I' I've mentioned you
know chapters
9 through 11. And everybody's going to
have their favorite section. And I would
actually love to ask you what your
favorite is, but but uh but I would love
to cover that section if if you don't
mind. Sure. Um because
>> it's so transcendent. Um and and by the
way, when I when I mentioned to John,
hey, jump into that about an hour later,
I was like, what do you think? And he's
like, okay, now I'm really into it. Um,
so, so it did work with at least John
Mackey. You know, chapter nine is uh
>> is all about the birth of the future
human.
>> Yeah.
>> And how we're in this evolutionary shift
and you describe humanity as a kind of
superorganism, you know, which um on
episode 11 of the podcast, Byron Ree,
one of my best friends, great author
>> um talked about humanity as a
superorganism in his book, We Are Agora.
>> Yeah. Um, and I I it's a very avatar way
of thinking, but I really I really
believe it that we're all connected.
We're all we're all
>> Yeah.
>> We're all part of one consciousness. Um,
and consciousness being fundamental.
>> And if if you could just kind of start
with
>> Yeah.
>> breaking that that that section down and
I would love to fill in like the parts
that jumped out to me the most because
there's so much richness
>> Yeah.
>> in there. And there's also, you know,
some real anguish like what what you saw
we have to go through to get to the
other side which um which I'm hoping
with with with initiatives like like
mine with with with others
>> that we don't have to go through so much
pain to
>> form the future human and you know as
you you call
>> you know God
>> is uh is ultimately like the diamond
maker you know taking us through through
this evolutionary shift. and that we're
built for evolutionary speed.
>> We are. We are. Let me let me back up
just a bit. We So, we'll get on the the
birth of the future human.
>> Great.
>> That began to come in
more than 10 years into the journey. So,
there's a lot of steps going up to that.
So, there's
>> a lot of learning, a lot of you know
because working in these states, you
learn by becoming. So you must become
something in order to really experience
it deeply and understand it. And so uh
you experience the collective psyche of
the human species not from an outside
perspective but you learn it by losing
yourself and dissolving into it and yet
having an awareness and then being
taught how it works, how the collective
psyche works or how the species mind
works. You you uh there's a period of
dying into this collective mind and then
there's a period of dying out of the
collective mind where the death that's
involved in going the next stage is not
an ego death but you literally die to
the fundamental cognitive structures of
humanity itself. you you're the entire
at one point the entire history of
humanity fell away from me
>> and when when the history fell away all
the philosophies all the religions of
the world all the understandings all the
science of the world fell away
>> and I moved into archetypal reality
and then after experiencing that reality
for a while there was another transition
and I experienced entering in what some
would call causal reality ity, non-dual
reality. And and all along this process,
I be there are things that began to be
dropped into my experience. They were
just uh pieces that were dropped in.
>> Um and I when I wrote the book, I
collected these visionary experiences
together in in one chapter. And
basically,
I'm going to not do them justice in a
short summary, but I basically began to
have
profoundly deep insights that told me
that humanity was coming into a critical
time in its evolutionary story. We're
entering into a time of profound grace,
uh, a a pivot point that would mark a
before and after of human evolution, of
human story. uh a time of of great
spiritual fruition, a time of u great
peace, a time of uh ecstatic joy. Um so
these just kept on dropping in and there
were other pieces of seeing that there
is a a an intelligence in the universe
that is manifesting itself in these
changes. This wasn't something that we
were doing by ourselves for ourselves.
But there was an uh nature was doing
this through us. Nature was taking us
into this turning point which is was of
a magnitude comparable to earlier in our
evolutionary history when we inherited
the 50% increase in our brain size. You
know that we didn't give ourselves that.
Nature gave us that.
>> Something happening like that. And this
was it really was
striking. Uh at first I didn't have any
even at the beginning I didn't even have
an understanding that seeing these
things was even possible.
But nowhere did my sessions give me or
the the consciousness in my sessions
give me any insight into how it was
going to accomplish this. I didn't
understand how it would be possible
given what I looked around in the world.
I didn't see us making this quantum jump
in consciousness.
But then uh late in my work in session
55 which kind of late in the story
because I had already entered into we'll
talk later about the diamond luminosity
work. I had done I had two of those
experiences. There were two more to
come. And in the middle of it, when I
was expecting to be taken into diamond
luminosity, something completely
different opened up. I dissolved into
the collective mind. I dissolved into
the human family. And then I experienced
as the human family
what I came to understand was the death
and rebirth of humanity. Mhm.
>> Not a lot of the detail given, but it
was the experience of my human family
experiencing a radical unraveling, a
radical destructuring, a radical loss of
all frames of reference, a loss of
control, uh a dissolving of structures,
uh taking us in, it was like a hurricane
blowing over a Pacific island where
you're just reduced to grabbing onto
something and holding on and hoping you
survive. It was that profound.
The anguish was excruciating. I mean,
that the fear of that I felt was
extraordinary.
And then just when it was at its worst,
just when it looked like all was lost,
the storm passed.
>> We began to pick ourselves up and we
found that humanity had been profoundly
changed by this crisis. It's something
happened. It touched something. It it
opened something in our heart. We found
that we had abilities that we did not
have before. The way I beginning to had
begun to think about this is that it
really opened up the heart and it opened
us up to the profound experience of
oneness. And with the experience of
oneness at kind of you might think of as
the heart chakra, it also opened up uh
higher uh cognitive functions, higher
chakra functions. As we began to
organize and and reorganize after this
crisis period, uh there was a a
synergistic creativity. Uh there was
just a hyper creativity manifesting
itself. Um and the session was took me
deeply over and over and over again. It
said this is going to happen faster than
anyone is imagining. It's faster than
anyone can imagine. And it showed me
some of the systems some of the workings
of nonlinear systems that the human
collective psyche is a system and the
the trauma of this event is going to be
so excruciating for the individuals that
it's going to stimulate not just the
individual psyche, it's going to hyper
stimulate the collective psyche. It's
going to move the collective psyche into
a what a chaos theoretician would call a
nonlinear state. And in the condition of
a far from equilibrium or
non-equilibrium condition, nature has
the capacity to evoke great creativity
very fast and to make changes very fast.
It was a brutal experience. It it ended
well, but it was excruciatingly
difficult.
>> Yeah. Uh because as I say in the book
after it was over it took me about a
year just to recover from the experience
to experience my entire human family
going through an ordeal like this. And I
don't I don't know whether it's going to
be exactly like this. All I can do is
report what I experienced. And I felt
like I was walking around my town in
Ohio and it was like walking around
Hiroshima the week before the bomb went
off that I everyone around me I had such
profound respect for the souls who are
here who are choosing to live on this
planet and choosing to undergo and to
support this process of transformation
which would have ramifications far into
history. Mhm.
>> I think this is not only a change of our
political structure, our civilizational
structure, economic structure. It's it's
a a change which reaches so deeply.
It'll change the fundamental
substructure of the collective psyche. A
change in the plate tectonics of the
collective psyche. So that children who
are born after we make this transition,
and I don't think it's like a quick
transition, it's a multigenerational
transition. They will be born.
They will live in a in a different form
of humanity, a different collective
psyche. They will have natural aptitudes
beyond what are natural aptitudes today.
It didn't give me a lot of detail about
what are the triggering causes. I I
experienced a global crisis. It seemed
that it might be related to a cascading
series of crises that were
environmentally related. Mhm.
>> Uh I didn't see much of the detail. I
just experienced the the depth of trauma
and the magnificence of the creature
that came out of that. And in later
subsequent sessions, I had several
opportunities. I was taken deep into
again what I call deep time and was
taken into
um the future and experiencing this new
archetype of the future human given some
sense of what it was about. M
>> uh and
when I've experienced this being this
>> uh
it's just the most magnificent thing.
Yeah.
>> The being is just the most
extraordinary.
We're looking at humanity healed,
humanity empowered.
It's it truly is like a a species of
where of Christ, a species of Buddhas, a
species of the prophets, all prophets,
all Buddhas. It's just an extraordinary
transformation of the human condition.
Now, I hope we don't have to go through
something as severe as that. I hope if
we're smart enough, if we're wise
enough, if we start making heroic
choices sooner,
>> we can soften that. Mhm.
>> Uh
but my experience was that we're really
going into a very difficult time.
>> Um
but this time is seminally important.
It's really critical and it's while it's
a time of great
challenge. It's also a time of great
grace because we're kind of we're
offloading the sins of our fathers
exponentially.
And the the time is a time of
exponential acceleration of development
individually and collectively. It's it's
a it's a beautiful vision on the other
side. And and and one of the
I mean it was one of the most moving
parts, maybe the most moving part was
when you got to actually experience what
it was like to be the future human.
>> Yeah. you know, and
how it changed your sight for for a
moment too with with uh you were
experiencing what how the future human
would actually see and you know you
called that diamond vision in in the
>> Yeah, I it's not just a change in the
human heart though it is and it's not
just a change of the human mind but it's
a change of our entire uh sensory
equipment. We're we're kind of
conditioned to believe that our senses
are a function of mechanics. You know,
just biological electrical mechanics.
But my experience is that that's not
true. Our mechanical system is animated
by consciousness. And when we are
handling much more consciousness than we
have been in the past, I experienced as
you mentioned that the diamond vision.
It was the last the very end of the last
session of the 20-year journey
>> about I experienced a hyper
intensification of my visual field.
It was not a hallucination. It was just
a hyperaccuity sitting with a a thousand
times more precision than I had ever
experienced before in my life. And it
lasted 10 minutes. And at the end of
that 10 minutes, I that's when I and I
went back to my ordinary normal vision.
I began to realize that I was seeing
through the eyes of the future human.
That all of our sensory life is being
transformed. Our heart, our mind, our
energetic body, but our senses are being
transformed. It's an open-ended
potential for development.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And you you described that
so well in the book. I mean, that was
that was a part of the book where I just
knew it was the truth and it just
absolutely lit up my whole
>> spoke to you because you know, you know,
from your own words, you know. Yeah,
>> I do. I I I I haven't experienced what
it feels like to be the future human.
>> Mhm. Um, but you know, as I've covered
on the podcast, you know, I covered the
book, The Order of Time, and you know,
time is an illusion when it comes to
source as it is, right? Time works very
differently.
>> Yeah.
>> In source. Um, but it's just wrong. So
true. And you know, one of the things
that
that uh we do know about just the
physical reality we're in is that our
senses are very dull compared to many
animals.
>> You know, we actually see very little of
the reality that's even in this room.
You know, we're not seeing infrared.
We're not seeing electromagnetic fields.
Um but we know it's here.
>> Yeah. Um, and they're, you know, we know
that when birds are flying away from,
you know, a typhoon really quickly,
they're they're seeing the
electromagnetic field. It's it's a
really it's a really cool experience
that you had because,
>> you know, humanity
is built for evolutionary speed without
a doubt. I mean, homo sapiens have been
here for 300,000 years and
>> have changed way more than any other
animal that I can think of. in terms of
>> our form 300,000 years ago to our form
today. Just to put a fine point on this,
you know, I asked you
>> last night night over dinner, you know,
to just being a tech tech optimist and a
longtime tech entrepreneur. Um, if you
see it as a kind of mechanical upgrade,
you know, just like I'm wearing contact
lenses, negative 6.5 and this eye,
negative6 and this eye. the future of
contact lenses where you can just, you
know, you can zoom in, you can see see
much more detail,
>> but you actually you actually said no, I
actually saw it as a biological upgrade
that just our biology changes.
>> Yeah. Our entire fundamental form
>> is evolving in time.
>> Yeah.
>> And now I understand some of this in the
course in the context of reincarnation.
So my first book was on reincarnation.
My position is that I think we just have
an abundance of empirical data now that
we didn't have 50 years ago. We have it
now. It's just it's a fact of nature. We
don't understand how it works. We don't
know how learning is lifted out of our
dying body and how it encodes into
another body. We don't know the physics
of reincarnation. But we know enough
about the phenomenology of the
continuity of consciousness that we have
reasons to infer that it's just true.
>> And so my understanding of that re that
reincarnation is simply the higher
octave of evolution.
>> So evolution evolves species but at some
point it evolves nature has figured out
a way to evolve individuals within
certain species. And so then we have the
you know nature is always rolling its
learning forward and it rolls its
learning forward in groups and then it
rolls learning forward with individuals.
So to me
reincarnation the more I've thought
about it the more I kind of see that um
reincarnation is about learning. It's
just about learning. The classic
understanding of reincarnation in the
eastern traditions or even in the
western mystical traditions is you grow,
you learn, you grow, you learn, you
become wiser, kinder, eventually you
achieve uh a state called samadei or or
realization, you you know spiritual
awakening. And then when you achieve
that state, then you can leave the
system. you you leave samsara, you leave
continuity of cyclic existence and you
have the privilege of resting in some
offplanet paradise uh whether the Buddha
world or heaven or the garden
uh but what emerged in my sessions was
something different and that is uh
achieving realization recognizing that
your being is divine at core It's
grounded in a a universal consciousness
that is the consciousness of life itself
and the creative consciousness of the
universe that all of life is is centered
and and a manifestation of that reality.
That's a very important breakthrough.
>> Mhm.
>> But that's only half of the circle,
>> right? The other half of the circle is
the incarnation of that awareness and
living it inside human existence
literally be making heaven on earth. And
uh I think we've been incarnating, we've
been evolving and gestating the future
human for hundreds of thousands of
years.
>> U but now we've reached a point where
the gestation is completing its cycle
and now we're entering into the time of
labor. Mhm.
>> The time of labor is a dangerous time.
It's a very painful time. Uh but it's
time for this child to be born.
And in another session,
in a session that I call the diamond
soul, the birth of the diamond soul, I
experienced all my former lives coming
into me just coming in very quickly.
And then they seemed to hit critical
mass. They merged and they hit critical
mass and they fused. And when they
fused, there was an explosion of diamond
light out of my heart.
>> And I was catapulted into a state of
exquisite uh transpersonal ecstasy.
I was an individual, but I was an
individual beyond any frame of reference
I had ever known before. And I think
what I was being shown in the teaching
that unfolded that I was being shown
this is where humanity is being taken.
This is where reincarnation is taking us
soon. Eventually, usually you know you
die, you return to the soul, you
incarnate, you get individual, you
return to the soul, individual. And we
just keep this up for thousands and
thousands and thousands of years.
>> But the eventual direction is our soul,
which is the consciousness that holds
all of our lives experiences.
Eventually the soul emerges inside human
existence so that the soul wakes up
inside the body and we know ourselves
not to be a hundred year old being but
to be a 100,000y old being
>> and when that awakens of course we've
had relationships with thousands and
thousands of people which just and we've
been many thousands of people. We've
been black, white, we've been poor,
rich, we've been everything in history.
And when the soul awakens in us, it
opens up this breath of compassion and a
breath of understanding. And there it is
truly the the birth of oneness within
the human species. And so for me, as
I've come to understand it, the future
human is not a sci-fi imagination. You
know we don't have to go into you know
stretch of the imagination to understand
what it is. We just have to look at our
history with understanding our history.
We've been building this organism and
there is a summation point coming so
that in order to make this transition in
order to survive our creative potential
which is emerging
at this time in history we need to grow
up. Mhm.
>> And to grow up, it means sort of
claiming our entire being, our soul
being, and to just let that soul come
forward and to shape our choices. And we
can see signs of the soul beginning to
emerge all over the place once you know
what you're looking for. Once you're
looking to see it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I know that you and I both u
share a love for uh for Michael Newton's
books. You know, Journey of Souls is
amazing. Yeah.
>> And I completely also believe in
reincarnation. I know it's I know it's
true. I've seen I've seen uh I've seen
in journeys for friends where they've
experienced other lives very deeply. I
know know you've experienced that
>> too as a as a new friend of mine. Thank
you. Um and you know the
one one one critique you know although
there's just overwhelming evidence yeah
for it
>> is well why do we have this amnesia you
know why do we need to relearn
>> and one thing that I've always said is
and I'm just curious how you you think
about this you know is that
>> if you you know you're you're you've
been a longtime professor if you if you
just took students aside and said hey
you know I know you're really passionate
about taking this course, I'm just going
to give you all the answers. Don't worry
about it. You'll make an A. Um, they
would they would feel cheated. They'd be
like, "Wait, hold on."
>> Um, so part of the amnesia is like to
rediscover how to be a good human being,
to rediscover how to love.
>> Yeah.
>> To find what your meaning is in this
lifetime.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, when you find it again, it gives you
boundless energy. That's how I look at
the book Man's Search for Meaning by
Victor Frankle.
you know, he found it and then he was
able to go through four concentration
camps and come out the other side of
that and
>> invent an entire field of psychology
called logootherapy.
>> Yeah. Um,
but the the interesting thing about the
vision you got there is that of of of
what that diamond soul is going to be
like that that we're you know the
diamond makers like pushing our soul
being embodied in our physicality for
the future human where we get access to
all that knowledge
>> is it's a very interesting intersection
with where we're at with the exponential
of exponential curves that we're in.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and it's one of those moments, you
know, whether it's Voltater or Uncle Ben
from Spider-Man, with great power comes
great responsibility.
>> Yeah.
>> And it is it is that it is that time
where um you know, I know you read my my
my science fiction novella, The Lattis,
which I which I gave you last night, and
you know, thank you for already reading
it.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> fun. It's great.
>> Beautiful.
>> Well, thank you so much. That means that
means so much coming from you. I I I
actually discussed it on episode 27 of
the podcast and kind of decode sections
of it and
>> give give some shout outs um uh to to
different people
>> in it. The lattice was really meant to
be a positive vision for how humanity
would awaken so we don't have to go
through this trauma.
>> I hope I hope that's true.
>> Yeah. And I all my heart I hope it's
true.
>> Yeah. And I I Well, I I do too. And I I
really think that um you know our whole
future re reality
um and future I think it's all
probabilities.
>> Yeah.
>> Like it's very quantum physics, right?
Yeah.
>> And you know if you study quantum
physics you know people like Robert
Lanza and bioentrism.
>> Yeah.
>> Reincarnation sinks completely with that
too because the energy doesn't leave as
you die. You know we're we're all just
light and energy
>> at our core. We actually know that
through quantum physics. We know that
we're in a field to Rehix Bosen. Yeah.
>> You know, all the work they've done at
CERN and we're finding out more and more
about why quantum entanglement is real
and
>> what is this connective fabric of the
universe of which we only understand 4%
we call that matter. We don't know what
96% is.
>> I think consciousness is a field.
>> I do.
>> And the soul is a field. And I think it
when we take field theory and apply it
to the soul, it makes a lot of sense.
>> Yeah.
>> But let me address that discontinuity.
Why the why do we forget?
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and so here's here's a thought
experiment.
>> I tell my students, if you were God,
Yeah.
>> which many of them think they are. So,
but so it's an easy
>> if you were God and you were designing a
system, you wanted to maximize growth
and you could take an organism and give
it a 100,000 years of life
>> and then at the end of that period, you
would examine it and see how much have
you learned. That's class A.
>> B. Example B is you take the same
100,000 years but you break it up into
hundredyear segments.
>> Mhm.
>> And in each of those hundred years you
change their position in life. Male,
female, rich, poor. You change it all
different things. Right.
>> At the end of that same 100,000 years,
which one do you think would have
learned more?
>> Mhm. and the class always chooses the
second because
>> and so the discontinuity is part of the
ex the conditions which makes
accelerated learning possible. So by
entering into by forgetting and doing
something different and then coming back
and assimilating it and then doing
something different. It's the
differences and the forgetting that it's
the forgetting that makes possible the
differences.
>> Totally agree
>> which then makes accelerated
development. But that doesn't mean that
the forgetting
is an abiding and eternal condition. I
think there is a time of remembering
when we die. But I think in history
there is a time of remembering. There is
a time of consolidating. So, I think
that we've, you know, there've been a
number of movies that have played with
the idea, what if we were to remember
our previous lives? Wouldn't that be
chaotic? And, you know, wouldn't that
just be confusing? And sure, we play
with that, but that doesn't mean that
nature's design doesn't involve
remembering at some point in our
evolutionary story. So, the Buddha, the
story of his awakening is he went
through the four watches of the night.
And in the first watch of the night, he
saw all of his former lives.
>> Second watch, he saw the karma, the
cause and effect that strung them
together in a meaningful sequence. In
the third watch of the night, he he saw
the undoing of that karma, the releasing
of the karma. And in the fourth night of
the wa night, the watch of the night, he
awakened into full consciousness. Mhm.
>> So I think in the remembering of our
former lives is part of the natural
process of awakening our full spiritual
potential.
>> It's just owning what we are.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I just think I I I I think that's
beautifully said and I just um I think
it's interesting that it's happening at
a time where we're in this exponential
of exponentials because once once you're
you know technology has always been an
exponential that now we're in that
upward part of the slope and it's just
going to continue to go straight up and
that's what you know that's that's what
>> the lattice is all about and you know I
cover the years 2030 through 205 and
it's a vision of like what happens when
humanity unites and then
>> all the things that we go through. And
one of the big reveals in the book is
that
>> this has happened throughout time and
space where a species has gotten to a
point of development where it had to
choose
collectively the collective psyche had
to choose love over fear.
>> Yeah. And you know we have you know the
diamond maker part of your book is such
a is so is so so beautifully said and
you know we've gone through you know
homo sapiens are derivative of homminids
who have been around for 4 million years
and so you know we're we've been around
for around 300,000 years and we've gone
through a real hardening process
already. I mean you know for.1% of our
evolutionary time we've had electricity.
>> Yeah. or 99.9% of the time we haven't.
You know, can you imagine, you know,
your life without electricity? Yeah.
>> Today, um I experienced that, you know,
we're talking about that last night. I
experienced that for eight days in the
Grand Canyon. It was marvelous what what
happened in the Grand Canyon and the
bonds I made with with friends there
like Michael Collins, who's been on this
podcast, um amazing documentary
filmmaker on intuition. That's a great
episode. But I knew I was coming back to
electricity.
>> Yeah. I I didn't, you know, it wasn't
like it was gone forever. It was gone
for eight days.
>> Yeah. It's a beautiful vision because
we're we're going to have technology
that's so powerful that um the vision I
received in in in uh in my journey that
led to love conquers fear is that God a
wants us to make it
>> to this this evolutionary leap and b
once we do then we get to propagate the
universe. iverse with the wisdom of love
conquering fear.
>> Yeah.
>> And the whole universe then blossoms,
>> you know, and that we're we're one of
the species
that God has chosen to go on that
journey
>> if we choose. But it's it's it's really
a it's a it's a very fateful choice
because, you know, we we we already have
like existential risks today. You know,
you and I talked about nuclear weapons
last night and
>> Yeah.
>> And I asked you how many of today's
arsenal would it take to essentially
destroy almost all of humanity
into a nuclear
>> It was 2%.
>> It's 2%.
>> We have 50 times the amount.
>> And so this this hijacking of the
amygdala to keep us in a fear state and
keep us separated,
>> he humanity has no choice but to
transcend that.
>> Yeah. it it has to transcend that there
there's no other way. That is one thing
I am 100% certain of through my visions
around technology that
>> that we're going to be I mean we're
we're going to have artificial general
intelligence in the next few years
>> that's going to lead to artificial super
intelligence that's going to lead to
intelligence that'll appear godlike to
us today.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's all going to happen in the
next 10 to 15 years.
>> Yeah. And so that is the diamond maker
moment like you and I are living it
right now. It's in this lifetime.
>> The nub for me is if this intelligence
is enacted
by an awakened heart
>> we're all safe and we all grow.
>> Yes.
>> If that intelligence is enacted with a a
shrunken heart or a self-centered heart,
then we die. Yeah. We go into
extinction. So one of the ways I
translate
uh courage versus fear, love versus fear
is small large.
>> Fear makes us keeps us small or our
smallness gives us reasons to fear.
>> Yeah. To
>> to allow ourselves to become large is to
allow us to enter into oneness and to
allow us to enter into love. And once
the heart opens into oneness, then the
world is safe from our intelligence. M
uh if we if we don't open up into that
then the world is threatened by our
intelligence and we bring destruction
into the world.
>> Yeah. It seems to me that the
acceleration that we're in of AI,
quantum computing, robotics, brain
computer interfaces, this chase to
think that we can create consciousness
in machines,
>> you know,
>> um is going to lead to more of a
discovery of what our actual reality is.
And so, for example, take take
reincarnation. Yeah.
>> Um or take that, um you and I would both
agree given the journeys we've had and
and probably anybody listening to this
who's had really transcendent journeys
with uh psychedelics or had a near-death
experience.
>> Yeah.
>> Or had just a spontaneous awakening. I
mean, there's lots of different ways to
get that knowledge.
um they I if if that's the if that's the
real reality then for sure that's going
to be discovered because
>> it's it's not just limited to the world
of form all the amazing discoveries
we're going to make. I mean, quantum
physics is already leading to this
knowledge of, oh my gosh, the ancient
mystics thousands of years ago were how
did they know that everything is
connected and now we're seeing
everything is connected. But there's no
way they could have known that
scientifically. Yeah.
>> The science didn't even exist even that
the way to even talk about it in a
scientific way didn't even exist.
>> Wasn't there
>> in the collective psyche, right? They
saw it and they saw it through the
disciplined use of consciousness through
meditation processes through the deep
deep introspection which most of the
world doesn't have the time or the
inclination to do and that's one of the
reasons I think psychedelics have a
tremendous they're an an evolutionary
accelerator
>> because now even
>> people who don't want to give their
entire life over to meditation processes
and there is a great value to doing that
And psychedelics don't negate in any way
that value. But as a supplement, it can
give ordinary lay persons a temporary
glimpse into the some of the underlying
structure of the world.
>> Uh and therefore it can sort of help us
accelerate an opening to those deep
truths which the religious traditions,
spiritual traditions have been speaking
about for millennia. But now I can have
a taste of it so that it rings true to
me and I understand how I can
participate in that process.
>> Yeah. And and once you glimpse that it
is transformational. And one of the
things that's super fascinating and I do
not believe is any mistake. I very much
believe in the book the celestine
prophecy that things things happen for a
reason and show up at at moments in time
for a reason.
>> And the divine is both very playful
sometimes hard on us. I mean, there's
there's all all different ways that the
divine um shows up for us. I see
synchronicities, sometimes multiple
times a day.
>> Yeah.
>> Um sometimes it really hits me over the
head, sometimes it's just a funny little
nudge. We're in that uh shift where
there's a consciousness awakening going
on at the same time, you know. So,
you've got
>> you've got the telepathy tapes, which
has been wildly popular. Yeah. You know,
at one point was more popular than than
the Joe Rogan show. Um, I I encourage
you to to to listen to season two, which
just wrapped up. It's it's amazing.
>> I'll do season two.
>> And I'm going to show you that segment
from Intuition before before you leave
with with Michael Collins because that's
going to be amazing. We're supporting
that documentary. Yeah.
>> Um, and so proud to be and
>> um so how do you think about that? Like
the consciousness awakening, you know,
given that this has been such a huge
part of your life's work.
>> Yeah. And what do you see happening now
that that kind of validates or
invalidates what I just said in terms of
how you see the consciousness awakening
occurring?
>> Well, you're right. There are so many
factors that are coming to a head now.
If you're paying attention, if you
choose to pay attention, there's so much
going on.
>> A lot of people aren't paying attention.
They walk around in mall consciousness
or their Super Bowl consciousness and
they're just not paying attention. But
if you're paying attention, the work
that's being done in in hard sciences
and physics and and cognitive sciences
and psychedelics and near-death episode
research, which is a tremendous
accelerator of our understanding, you
know, and reincarnation research, so
much interest,
>> consciousness research,
>> consciousness research, the heat's being
turned up underneath us. We're going
from a a slow low boil simmer where
we're moving up to a high boil. Now,
there are counterprocesses,
too. There's tremendous greed it that
runs through our culture. There's
tremendous fear that runs through our
culture. Paranoia. This there's a
tremendous kind of scarcity
consciousness where we're not sure that
we're going to get enough. Tremendous
inequalities that are being hard almost
hardened into our culture right now. So
it's it's a tremendous kind of
confrontation of
very destructive restrictive
processes and very liberating processes.
Uh and I think our future is going to be
determined by uh which of those
processes we listen to more.
>> You know, which are we going to pay most
attention to, which will we invest in,
which will we uh give ourselves over to.
Mhm.
>> Uh cuz right now, you know, really if we
had to take a look, if you really look
at all of the processes in the world,
you could make a very powerful case that
the destructive processes that keep us
small and in fear are overwhelming the
the love pro processes, you know, the
the bigger processes. But personally, I
with you. I'm with you. I think that as
Jung said, nature uh supports growth
>> and this is our growth. We're we're
coming into a time when
extinction is a tremendous motivator and
I think we're coming into a near
extinction time. We'll have tremendous
motivation to become larger more than we
are now. And uh I think for ourselves,
but even more I think we'll do it for
our children and our children's
children. And if you if you really love
your children, then you're going to love
all the children in the world. just have
to love. You can't
>> absolutely
>> can't not love the children. We just
have to make this transition. We have to
make the world
>> safe for everyone. We have to rebalance
and redistribute and take us forward.
And
>> and in that process, I think we will
experience the fruition of our own
destiny welling up inside of us. And as
we feel that fruition over time, it will
just become
uh we really truly will experiencing an
awakening of our heart, an awakening of
our mind, an awakening of true peace, a
heaven on earth.
>> And it's not going to stop with our
death. It's going to continue and it's
going to continue. And I think this
>> this really is a pivot point in history.
I think psychedelics have a significant
role to play in this pivot point in my
discipline which is philosophy. Most of
the work is being done in by
psychologists and clinical people
>> but I think it has an enormous impact on
philosophical thought, cosmological
thought. I've often thought I wish that
I had degrees in physics and
astrophysics
because if I had had that training, the
universe could have shown could have
taught me so much more
>> than it could teach me with the
background that I had. uh because
and and I really look forward when we
begin to have research protocols where
we take our best scientists and we take
our best artist, our best and we put
them through the initiatory processes
that psychedelics make possible. And of
course what we're already seeing it
enhances creativity, enhances our
ability to solve problems. We have
breakthroughs in these states. We can
concretize those insights into practical
outcomes. And all of this I think
contributes to the opportunity
for the next generation to live better
than the past generation.
>> Yeah.
>> That's the challenge before us.
>> Yeah. It and and it is it is a big
challenge. I don't want to make a light
of it. Um, I mean, I know that one of
the reasons when when I reached out to
you that you said yes to be on Love
Conquer here when I spoke to you is you
said to me, you know, if we if we if we
lose corporate America in this, you
know, then then we're not going to make
it. Yeah.
>> But we win corporate America, we will.
And the the the best episode of Love
Conquers Fear to really dive into that
was episode three with Jason Karp, who
will be here tonight for the dinner. I'm
very glad you get to meet him. I'm glad
you're also a big Hugh Chocolate fan. We
were too before before we knew him and
his wife. You know, Jason talks about
like
>> corporations have to graduate from
putting profit over people. I mean,
>> we we are wired the way we are because
of the amount of evolutionary time that
we've dealt with scarcity that you and I
cannot imagine. And there's still
countries, to be clear, that are dealing
with this level of scarcity. I cover
Chad quite a bit on this podcast, which
has a GDP of $660 a person versus our
$85,800 a person.
>> Yeah. Um and like start out actually
love conquer fear um the book with with
with covering Chad and and and the hope
for Chad. We we do live in a place right
now at least in the world of form where
corporations are trying to keep us hyper
addicted hyper addicted to social media
content that
>> is harmful to our our psyche our
individual psyche.
>> Yeah. Um, and collective, you know,
media constantly pushing us the the the
worst dystopian, you know, the the stuff
that just keeps us in this height and
>> fierce, shrunk, small, competitive,
>> aggressive. Yes. And uh and then the
toxins in our food and the
pharmaceutical complex and and look,
there's lots of people in food doing
doing amazing work. Lots of people in
pharmaceuticals doing amazing work. It's
not like and and lots of people in
corporations, you know, that are doing
amazing work.
>> And as you know, I've been part of the
conscious capitalism movement, which,
you know, John Mackey was the co-founder
of
>> And um you know, that that heart shift
in corporate America, the way I see it
playing out as a as an entrepreneur
is that the next generation
really is demanding it. Yeah,
>> they're they are really demanding it. If
you look at the the youngest generation,
their social media use is going down,
their alcohol use is plummeting, and
they're they're they really are like Neo
and the Matrix. They're just like going
to stop the bullets. They're like,
>> "Okay, you know, this is not the world
that I want."
>> Yeah.
>> And I know that you share a love for
this this youngest generation. Yeah. And
that um you said on the leading edge
call that we had that God sends in the
brightest troops.
>> Yeah.
>> When the going gets tough, God sends in
the A team. Yeah. You know, and they are
extraordinary. I mean, I've watched them
as college students.
>> They're just they're so extraordinary.
They have such capacity, such natural
>> understanding of things that I had to
struggle years
>> uh to understand and just and the talent
is extraordinary.
>> And the spiritual depth is
extraordinary.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I feel like with with our own kids
with with Rachel and Yuzu that we're
raising little Buddhas, you know, like
like I'm kind of sometimes I just feel
totally totally outmatched, you I'm just
trying to keep up with them and be be as
good as they are, you know.
>> Um because their their level of wisdom
is so so beautiful, you know. I made the
mistake um
>> with uh with with Rachel at one point
calling her the wrong generation,
calling her millennial. She's like,
"Dad, I'm not a millennial." Like, she's
like, "Look at the difference." And and
I looked at the difference. I actually
used AI to like analyze the difference
between her generation
>> and I was like, "Wow, you're better."
Actually, your generation really is
better. Like, it's actually codifiably
better, you know, in terms of the
wiring.
>> Yeah.
>> And users generation probably be even
better than that. Yeah.
>> Um, so it's I I think that I think the
way I see it playing out at least is
we're going to hit a precipice point in
our evolutionary history
and in our technological progress where
we're going to be able to see
um
abundance on the horizon. we're going to
be able to see it and it's going to
force a choice and I think you're going
to see it happen both tops down leaders
have a heart shift and bottoms up to be
like we just can't play the scarcity
zero sum fear-based game
>> or we will destroy ourselves
>> and you know you think about you know
the Cuban missile crisis which was a
which was a very scary event
>> um but you know one brave person made
the fateful choice and and uh you know I
had I had uh um Pipa Malgrren on the
podcast and she described that really
well. Um you you'll be able to you you
haven't seen that episode yet, but it'll
it'll go live really soon. And her dad
was in the room during that moment
>> really.
>> He was he was in the room. Uh he worked
for for four presidents um in his in his
career. And you know, it ended in hugs.
>> Yeah. It ended in hugs and and I think
that
>> the technology is going to progress so
quickly, so astonishingly
amazing in terms of its capability that
it's going to force us to make that that
choice.
>> And as you mentioned in that example,
it's crisis that drove the conditions
that ended in hugs. Mh.
>> And so there's a sense in which we are
coming to a
a telling time in history.
>> We we are inheriting a crisis in nature
that
>> is of our own making.
>> Uh hundreds of years in the making and
circumstantially and it's like nobody's
fault but now it maybe becomes our
fault. But there's a crisis brewing.
>> Uh and I think crisis has a role in
taking us where we're going. The sooner
we respond to that crisis and address
it, uh I think the better the fewer of
our children have to die for us to make
this transition.
>> Yeah. Let's go back and dive into the
book.
>> Okay.
>> Um because there's so much there's so
much we haven't covered and it's it's
impossible to cover the entire book. I
mean, it's it really is
>> a must- readad um for people in my in my
very strong opinion. um whether or not
they have interest in psychedelics. just
you know what I what I told you when I
picked you up from the airport I said
said you wouldn't be mad at me is that
you were willing to die to really get to
this level of knowledge about what a
reality was and you said well actually I
experienced many ego deaths which is
psychological death is actually harder
than harder than physical death
>> right and that that really sat with me a
lot as I went to
>> because when you die physically that's
inside you know that you know your
consciousness is going to survive.
>> Yeah.
>> But when you die
>> consciously, when you die
psychologically, it is a a radical
death.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you are reborn into a different
state of consciousness, a different set
of capacities.
>> Yeah.
>> And so so the the the subtitle of your
book, Diamonds from Heaven,
>> Yeah.
>> you know, we've touched a little bit on
on the diamond soul, etc., but we have
we we haven't really delved into diamond
luminosity.
>> Yeah. which is which is which is really
beautiful and has so many
synchronicities with quantum physics and
the world of light that we come from.
But
>> won't we won't we dive into that a bit
>> that really addresses what it was
emerging in the last five years of my
20-year journey because there was levels
at the personal mind levels at the
collective mind
>> levels at the archetypal layer of mind
and then levels at causal mind or causal
oneness. Mhm.
>> So by the time I had reached that level
and I received there was one year of
extraordinary blessings in in causal
reality and you know experiences of
oneness of shunyata what Buddhists call
shunata emptiness of self um experiences
of cosmic love the experience of the
diamond soul uh and I was like totally
philosophically satiated. I thought you
know I had been asked to give something
in the ocean of suffering work and I
gave it and I was more than rewarded uh
for that.
>> You already felt like you had gotten so
many blessings at that point. filled
with blessings. But there was still 5
years to go.
>> And I went I was taken into yet another
cycle of death and rebirth. And it's
it's not a repetition of ego death, but
a different kind of death. And then
suddenly uh
when I came out of that death I entered
into a state of extraordinary
uh hyperclarity hyper reality clear
beyond imagination just extraordinary
clear I mean it just my f my mind fell
open into a dimension of cosmic mind
that was beyond anything I had ever
experienced before and I'd experience
light many times. When you go through
ego death, you often experience light in
different stages as light. But it was as
if all those earlier experiences of
light were simply preparing me for this.
And uh it was just
it was just overwhelmingly
beautiful. I won't say it's ecstatic
because it's it was ecstatic but it's
the most wonderful thing was the clarity
just clear
just
I began to understand what the Buddhists
mean when they say when you experience
this it undoes thousands of years of
living in the shadows of karma. It's
it's outside of karma, outside of cause
and effect. It's it's a different
reality.
>> Mhm.
>> And over the next 5 years and 26
sessions, which is onethird of my entire
journey,
>> Mhm.
>> I only experienced diamond luminosity
four times.
>> When you touch a level of hyper pure
consciousness or hyper clear, it
triggers all sorts of detoxification in
your psychophysical spiritual system. So
when you the first time I touched
diamond luminosity
the next session the opening line of the
next session was today was spent
entirely in the mud. You know it just
triggers all sorts of detoxification.
You have to process this in order before
you can get back into that diamond
luminosity state. So it
>> it opened up about once a year uh for
four years. The first two episodes took
me deeper and deeper into the diamond
luminosity.
And then the last two episodes brought
the diamond luminosity deeper and deeper
into my being. It was like the diamond
light was crunching itself into my
physical form into my emotional and and
physical makeup. And that's why the very
very last session at the very end that
gift of diamond vision was I think this
diamond luminosity getting so deeply it
was affecting my physical senses.
But something happened in the middle of
that sequence in the 50th session when I
was in this as deep as I ever went into
the diamond luminosity. So I was paid
the price of getting there and I was I
was resting in a state of exquisite
ecstatic
clarity.
>> Mhm. And then my physical field, my
visual field turned 90 degrees and
something opened and I saw far into the
distance another reality far away.
And I saw something that looked like
galaxies, but that's the best my mind
could do to put form to something that
was a light domain.
And a beam of light hit me from that
reality and it completely shattered me.
And I was in the diamond state at that
time. But this light completely
shattered me. And it only lasted a
couple of seconds.
And as I was putting my mind back
together and coming into the diamond
state, I I began to realize that it in
one second, it completely changed my
understanding of what the journey is
about and how reality is built. Mhm.
>> Because like many other
misunderstandings that I had taken into
this work, I thought the goal was to get
to some destination.
>> It's sometimes described as becoming one
with God or entering the metacosmic void
or there's some ultimate state or going
home. And I had experienced oneness with
God of many different forms. And I
experienced different manifestations of
the void. and and I had experienced
coming home repeatedly
but I always had had this sense that
there is an end point to this journey
that if I reach this end point all will
be well and in this I was in the
condition of supreme all is well
>> but I learned that it's an infinite
journey it's an infinite progression
even using this powerful methodology I
would never ever get to the end of the
mystery of
>> you might call it the of the divine. You
might I call it the mind of the
universe, the being of the universe, the
creative intelligence of life. That's
one of the reasons I would if I were
doing this journey over again, I would
do it very differently because I've
learned the goal is not to get to some
end state.
>> The goal is to open up and let in as
much healing as you can. Let as much
insight as you can. Hold on. grab as
much of it as you can, adjust your life,
live your life in in accordance with it.
Uh, but it's it's an it's just changing
your membrane, the balance of how you
live in the context of infinite
intelligence and infinite love, becoming
more available to it, more transparent
to it. Uh, and of course, this is done.
This is what spiritual practice is. It's
simply becoming more transparent to the
reality that is.
>> Yeah. So, I've learned it's it's not an
endpoint
>> uh agenda. It's a
>> it's a transparency agenda.
>> Yeah. That that part of the book um
blasted me too when I when I saw it
because and it it it it influenced you
know the lattice like you know God's
God's infinite game is the last part of
the lattice. And I I I I don't think
that we'll ever fully understand the
nature of God or the mind of the
universe. Like I I think it's so far
beyond
>> our comprehension.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know, whatever was the force that
made the big bang.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know, a state of no entropy that
boom. You know, every materialist has to
deal with that miracle.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> Yeah. It just I I I don't think it's
possible for us to fully understand the
nature of God. I don't think I don't
think we we ever will. And and and that
was that was like the natural kind of
conclusion point for you know when you
reach that state where it's like you
know you you would you you'd put your
body through a lot put your mind through
a lot had done a lot of collective
healing of the human psyche
>> really come back to tell the tale to
humanity which we all again owe you a
great debt of gratitude for that. It's
just like the people that open up the
Drake Passage or the first people to go
to the moon. I mean, you know, took
great risk to advance our species. Um,
and you know, that was that was it,
right? That was the that was the that
was the point where you're like there is
no end to this. If we take the very very
best of our species right now, the the
our most brilliant scientist and our
most highly developed spiritual beings,
you know, and then we imagine a 100,000
years from now, which is a blink in
divine
>> evolutionary time.
>> It's nothing.
>> 100,000 years from now, imagine what
we're going to be capable of.
>> Oh yeah.
>> You know, not just in our con concepts,
but in what we will have actualized. And
so if we just think back a 100,000 years
or 300,000 years in the past, imagine
homoaded
dying and confronting this infinite
intelligence and how hard it would be
for this being to take in the magnitude
of this infinite intelligence. And now
we're 300,000 years later and we think
because we have all these fancy theories
and we know so much more than we did
then, we can take in the magnitude of
what this thing is and what it's doing.
Yeah,
>> just take ourselves forward a few
hundred thousand years and try to
imagine what is going to be what what
this intelligence is going to be evoking
>> in us in the emergence of continuing
evolution forward. I mean it's it's an
ongoing drama as you say in the book
God's play. I mean, it's, you know, I I
hesitate to use the word God because as
a professor of religious studies, I know
how much damage has been done by our
shrunken and heavily culturally
inculturated limitations in our
understanding of thinking about God.
>> But you can use that term God as long as
you strip it away. Mhm.
>> This intelligence that that that led to
the big bang, the intelligence that gave
birth to the galaxies and and the solar
systems and nature and life and
consciousness and individuated
consciousness and moving forward. I
think you're right. We we really don't
have an idea of what's coming.
>> I mean, we may be able to envision the
next stage. We may be able to envision
the crisis and the resolution of the
crisis and the next stage, but that's
just the next cycle of evolution. It's
hard to imagine what lies 100,000 years
past that cycle into and there and
that's when I think it's
>> we we ultimately always have to
surrender to the majesty of existence to
the majesty of it all. I mean, I know
that you're inspired by uh the wonderful
photographs that come out of the web,
James Webb,
>> James Telescope, and I do too. I mean,
they just it lifts your spirits. It
lifts your eye to a larger horizon. And
psychedelics open us up and lift us to a
larger horizon. We've seen the wisdom
and the intelligence outside of us, but
when we look to human existence, we have
not felt the wisdom. We've not felt we
feel like there may be beauty and wisdom
there, but this is a mean and ugly and
dirty business and God doesn't care and
and this is hard hard.
>> But I think now we're beginning to
understand with understanding
reincarnation,
understanding the larger trajectory of
our individual and our collective
development. Now we begin to be able to
understand maybe what are some of the
seeds of suffering
>> in human existence and what are the
seeds of of uh clarity and and
breakthrough in human existence.
So I think in the end when we expand our
experience of what human existence is
about, we can then experience the beauty
of the universe and feel ourselves part
of it instead of feeling ourselves
estranged from it because we're just a
little bitty piece and things are so
hard we don't understand it.
>> Yeah,
>> we can understand it. We're beginning to
understand it. And with that
understanding
>> comes great peace. really great piece
and excitement. It just it's exciting.
>> I mean, I can I can definitely tell you
it breaks down really quickly for me,
even as a as someone who who has seen
where technology is going to go.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, in in episode 21, I had
Jeremiah Owing on who is one of the best
AI investors in the world, and he works
alongside Reed Hoffman. Reed Hoffman's
the founder of LinkedIn and has has has
been one of the best investors in the
world, period. like probably one of the
top 10 in tech. And he said on that
episode that even Reed Hoffman with all
the access he has can't see beyond two
to three years with AI. So you're
talking 100,000 years um in the lattice
I was like really trying to envision you
know
>> the next uh you know 60 years
essentially a 100,000 years from now I
mean
>> we would if if we could go in that time
machine and you and I visit that
>> I don't think it'd be recognizable at
all
>> at all. I don't think we'd even be able
to recognize
the the the being.
>> And even if we scaled it back to 10,000,
>> right? 10,000 years.
>> Still be hard.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It it you know, one one way
to think about that is in reverse.
>> Yeah.
>> If you and I could go back a 100,000
years.
>> Yeah.
>> What would they think of us right now?
>> They'd be like, "Hold on. You have
something called a grocery store and you
have these things called blueberries and
there's like 10 different types at that
grocery store
>> and jets. Yeah. And jets and just on and
on and on. They would not
>> they would not they wouldn't even be
able to grapple with electricity.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, clean water,
>> flushing toilets, you know, a hot
shower. I mean, there's just so many
things that
>> the cusp of so many extraordinary things
coming.
>> Yes. You know and to me the the key we
have this exponential liberation of the
mind taking place in so many disciplines
the heart seems to have opened more
slowly than the mind
>> and uh I think what's happening here is
that the heart has to open the heart is
opens us to oneness it opens us to
compassion it opens us to fellow feeling
uh the heart now is the constricting
organ of evolution and I think If we
don't open the heart, if we don't open
to oneness and compassion,
>> uh to love as you say, then our mind be
it continues to be a danger
>> to humanity. But if we make this
transition,
>> yeah,
>> then our mind
uh becomes a bounty.
>> And it's some people ask me, what about
human nature? What about animals? What
about you? You know, you don't ever talk
about animals in your book.
And I think that's true. I mean, and
there are some people who work with
psychedelics. They have very deep and
profound experiences with animals with
um kind of in a shamanic kind of world
with animal intelligence.
And I think the reason is because
humanity represents the greatest threat
to all life on this planet.
>> If we can heal humanity, then all the
animals will be safe
>> for sure. And if we don't heal humanity,
then they continue to be endangered and
to die.
>> Yeah. I would say that we also have the
greatest potential to heal the planet.
Yes.
>> Like replenish the ozone.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, you remember in the lattice by
2050, the earth becomes a healed jewel.
>> Yeah.
>> And we have we we have that and no
animal has that potential.
>> Yeah. Um, one one derivative pieces of
work that I haven't sent you yet is um
called the whales dream and it's a
branch in from the lattice where Dr.
Alexander Bliss
you know gets very um infactuated with
working with whales because their
consciousness they're in a half awake
half asleep state. So while they're
sleeping, they're actually half of their
brain is awake. And
>> and we decode whale language, and that's
already happening right now, but we
decode it to a point where we can really
converse with them.
>> And we find out it's actually got a
great tiein with reincarnation
>> that they they already have the diamond
soul.
>> Yeah.
>> That they're already there. They they
already know all of their prior
lifetimes.
>> Yeah.
>> Um that their consciousness is more
developed than our consciousness. are
receiving
>> it differently and
>> interesting
>> that that very much could be the case
today you know that that is what love
conquers fear is all about I mean the
message of the podcast and the book
>> is that is what humanity needs to to get
to and one one thing I'd love to do as
we kind of wrap this up and we go into
this beautiful dinner tonight with uh
with the leading edge group which is
going to be such an honor to be there
with you and hear all of those
>> very intelligent people ask you
questions um is at the at the end of
your book um it's in it's in it's in
chapter 12 coming off the mountain you
know where you're talking about the
difficulty of coming off the mountain of
all these journeys
>> um and there's a last section of that
chapter called entering the sweet valley
there's this there's this part where
you're interacting with a woman. I can't
remember which which woman it was, but
you're writing to her and she's asking
you to distill it.
>> It's a reporter.
>> Okay. It's a reporter. Y
>> Yeah.
>> And um and this is not going to do the
book justice at all because there's so
much deep texture in the book. Again,
it's a must. It's a must readad.
>> Well, she asked me, "What's the most
important thing you learned?"
>> Yes. And so, I want to read that list.
Um cuz I I I think we've covered
everything on this list, but I want to
see if there's anything else we should
maybe just double click on before we
wrap up. Number one, that the universe
is the manifest body of a divine being
of unimaginable intelligence,
compassion, clarity, and power.
Number two, that we are all aspects of
this being, never separated from it for
a moment. Number three, that we are
growing ever more aware of this
connection.
Number four, that physical reality
emerges out of the light and returns to
the light continuously.
Number five, that light is our essential
nature and our destiny.
Number six, that all life moves as one.
Number seven, that reincarnation is
true.
Number eight, that there is a deep logic
and significance to the circumstances of
our lives.
Number nine, that everything we do
contributes to the evolution of the
whole.
Number 10, that our awareness continues
in an ocean of time and a sea of bliss
when we die. Number 11, that we are
loved beyond measure. And number 12,
that humanity is driving towards an
evolutionary breakthrough that will
change us and life on this planet at the
deepest level.
It's really beautiful.
>> There's nothing in that list that our
best spiritual traditions haven't
already taught us.
>> I know
>> what emerges in psychedelic, the
cosmology that emerges is not a new
cosmology.
It's simply a different technology that
allows us to have access to these
insights which have been accessed in
other contemplative disciplines through
history.
>> There's nothing new here. It's just a
different methodology for accessing
them. But it's powerful meth medicine at
a time when we need powerful medicine
right now. And so I I hope that
psychedelics will contribute to
an awakening of the human heart and an
opening of the human mind to this and
help us fulfill this destiny
>> which is building up inside of us
underneath us taking us forward.
>> Yeah.
>> Where we need to go.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It certainly
will be um an increasingly powerful tool
because it's it it's having a real
renaissance.
right now without a doubt.
>> Um, but I I would also posit that
there's going to be a lot more with
brain computer interfaces. There's going
to be a lot more understanding about
near-death experiences about,
>> you know, I I anybody listening to this
or watching this, I would not
underestimate how technology will
actually help us prove scientifically
that this list is true. H that would be
that will be interesting, won't it?
>> Will will be interesting is inevitable
that it happens.
>> Um, you know, as I've said many times on
this podcast, I'm 95% certain that we
make it. I want to make that 100%.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's Yeah, it's it's it's inevitable
because because again, like, you know,
think about Max Plunk and Albert
Einstein and the patriarchs of quantum
physics. They became more spiritual as a
result of their discoveries because they
found that the ancient mystics are
right.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and you know from the lattice
that I ended by quoting from ancient
scripture.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, quoting from the Quran,
quoting from the Zohar, quoting from the
Bible, quoting from ancient Hindu text.
>> Yeah. And
you know it took it took it took us the
scientific discovery to
understand that everything that's in you
know Bhagavad Gita and the Da Ding and
ancient
>> you know text
was was true
>> deep truths
>> deep deep truths and that that is um
>> that that's something I'm super excited
about in this lifetime is not just about
humanity making it. But I actually think
the catalyst for humanity to make it is
going to be that non-local consciousness
is real and that we come from this world
of love and light.
>> Yeah.
>> And then once we know that,
>> how do we behave having that knowledge,
it it it will for sure transform us.
>> Yeah.
>> Um because then we know that that is our
actual reality. So, um I'm looking
forward to the continuing journey with
you. I'm so glad that uh you become a
friend and and I'm just so
>> deeply deeply thankful and and and have
immense gratitude for what you've done
on behalf of humanity. Um, I really
think that that uh your work is going to
go down in time, you know, 50, 100 years
from now, maybe not even that long, as
the a key catalyst for for why humanity
made it.
>> I I really I really think that's going
to happen.
>> If it helps in any way, if it helps
humanity make it, it would just be an
honor and a privilege. Guess that's all
I want. All we want is just
>> help humanity make it through this
transition. Help us come to our senses.
help us wake up.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, thank you so much.
Yeah. Really, really appreciate it.
>> Really wonderful, brother.
>> Thanks so much. So, thanks everybody for
tuning in to another episode of Love
Conquers Fear. Um, incredible lineup
coming. I am fully booked uh for the
next couple of months and um just stay
tuned. There's there's going to be um
just so many amazing guests on. Um,
thanks again for all the love you're
giving me. Um, you actually helped me
come up with my 2026 theme for for the
year to make this year all about
embodiment. You know, last year it was
all about the inner journey. And um,
I've just seen so many business leaders,
entrepreneurs having a heart shift. I
mean, I got a I got a message today from
someone that it's been absolutely
transformational for her in her life.
And um that's all I'm trying to do here.
This is my love letter to humanity. It's
going to take us all and it's team
humanity all the way. We got to make it.
We will. Um, thank you so much and love
you